We've established dot HTML is the language that web pages are written in our next step is to S.H. Tim
out in action.
So in this lesson we'll be creating the world's simplest web page together.
We don't need any special software to begin creating web pages.
Now in the next lesson I will encourage you to roll up your sleeves and follow along.
But for this first lesson I want you to sit back relax and simply watch.
I want you to pay attention to how simple M L is in front of you is a text editor.
I will explain in detail in future lessons what a text editor is and it will help me find the right
text editor for your preferences and for your platform.
But for now just think of a text editor as a place where we can type Cape and then the only other program
currently running on my computer is a web browser.
I'm using Mozilla Firefox but you might want to use Google Chrome or Internet Explorer or Safari or
any other web browser.
Now what we're going to do in this first lesson is write a bit of code in our text editor and then we're
going to view that code through the eyes of our web browser.
Back in the text editor will begin writing code.
Let's imagine our first goal is to add an important heading to the page and we want that important heading
to read Hello world.
Now that we've included the code for a heading let's save this text as a file just like we would with
a word processing program.
So if you initiate the save prompt from File Save You can then choose where you would like to save the
file.
I'm going to save it in a learn HVM folder that I've created and then I'm going to name the file index
.
Now we can see here is a folder on my desktop and here is the file that we just created.
I want to open this file in my web browser.
So in Firefox for you it might be Chrome or Internet Explorer or Safari.
So I'm going to do is find the file that we just created and drag it on top of my web browser.
The first thing that we notice is that this looks different than what we typed in our text editor in
our text editor.
We typed less than symbol H-1 greater than symbol.
Hello world.
And then less than symbol forward slash H-1 greater than symbol.
But in our web browser We simply see.
Hello world.
This is because HMO is not designed for humans to read.
It's designed for web browsers to receive and then render a web page and then humans can read the web
page that it outputs.
So for example all this code did is create a heading level one or H-1 element HMO pages are made up
of different elements.
So for example what if we wanted to tell the web browser to output a slightly less important heading
H-2 and we can include any text that we'd like so we can say hello world again.
So if I save and then click refresh in Firefox we can see the new text.
Next let's create a bit of standard text or paragraph text between these two headings P for paragraph
.
This is a paragraph that contains only one sentence.
So let's review the syntax that we're using to create elements.
I like to say that writing HMO is like making sandwiches so you can see that this is the start tag and
it's essentially a piece of bread.
This is the end tag.
And it's another piece of bread.
So that leaves the peanut butter and jelly or the meat or whatever we want to include in the sandwich
in between the two slices of bread.
So let's review the syntax for the bread slices.
This is the less than symbol.
This is the code for the element that we wish to create.
In this case it was p for paragraph and then this is the greater than symbol and then the ending piece
of bread.
The closing tag uses a forward slash right before the code for the element.
So if I save and then go to our Web browser and click the refresh button you can see that we now have
a piece of standard paragraph text between the two headings.
If you recall from earlier I mentioned that our goal was to create the world's simplest web page and
I think we have achieved that.
So we have a heading bit of standard text and then a smaller heading.
Let's review what we've learned in this lesson.
We've learned that we simply type code into a text editor and then save that file as an H DML file that
our web browser can then load and that's what creates a web page.
We learned how to create an element an element is simply a start tag a bit of content and then a closing
tag.
We learned that there are different element types at our disposal that we can use to give semantic meaning
to our page's content.
In this first lesson we only saw three different element types in action heading level 1 paragraph and
heading level 2.
Now obviously there's a lot more to the web than headers and paragraphs.
We will learn about all of the different HVM elements throughout this course but there's no sense in
trying to memorize all of them in the first lesson.
The key concept for this lesson is that HTL is a language used to describe content.
We give different types of content their own different and semantically chosen labels.
Now before we go any further it is important to note that h t m l is not for adding style to pages.
This means that we should not use HTML to control the color of text.
The size of text we should not use H-G MLT assigned background colors or background images or padding
or margin or borders or anything else that is a matter of design preference.
HMO is for content.
It's how we describe our content and give it semantic meaning if you want to add style to a page that's
what cascading style sheets or CSSA is for now we will learn CSSA inside and out.
In the second half of this course the first half of the Course is about understanding what each DML
has to offer or in other words during the first half of the course.
The pages we create will look incredibly basic and once we have a rock solid understanding of HMO or
other words halfway through the course we will begin learning CSS in order to add the design to web
design.
So currently Let's stay focused only on each DML in our next lesson.
I'll encourage you to roll up your sleeves and get some hands on experience.
You will basically be doing what we just did in this lesson.
I'll show you how to set up a text editor.
Make sure that you understand how to save the file correctly so that it saves with an HTML extension
and then will learn how to load it in your web browser so you can begin experimenting writing HMO code
just like I did in this lesson.
I think that'll be a lot of fun so I'll see you in the next lesson.